!The following is a transcript of emails between me and Cybiko/UK.
!This is Confidential. Do not publish outside the C3PO.
{{{
July 17, 2003

Hello,


I am Gregory Smith, president of The Alcor Group, founder of the Cybiko 
Third Party Organization, and webmaster of  DevCybiko.com - a website 
dedicated to new and experienced Cybiko developers. I represent a 
collection of third party developers in the United States who are
steadfast in their interest in developing hardware and software 
applications for the Cybiko handheld computer for teens.

I am writing to you today to increase interest in the Cybiko handheld 
computer.  I hope to do this by establishing a working relationship with
Cybiko/UK that will allow me and the other developers I represent to
create hardware and software of all types for the Cybiko computer in the UK.

I have been programming for the Cybiko since November of 
2001.  DevCybiko.com opened up on December 21, 2001.  I have created
such applications as "B2C" (the BASIC compiler for Cybiko), "MiaChat" (the 
wireless AIM client for the Cybiko), and "TCPKIT" (the TCP/IP tool kit
for wireless Internet applications on the Cybiko). I have been featured in 
articles regarding the Cybiko and I even have a link on the Cybiko.com 
developer's page.  I have contributed to the CyBoard and Cybiko.com 
newsgroup answering questions about the Cybiko and how to develop for
it.

As you are likely aware, Cybiko/USA has abandoned the Cybiko handheld 
computer as a hardware platform preferring instead software development
for other wireless platforms.  This has caused the availability of Cybikos in the
USA to nearly vanish (with the exception of a trickle that is sold on 
Ebay).  This lack of hardware on the market has created a lack of Cybiko
users.  The lack of users of course means there are fewer people to try
our 3rd party applications.

So, when I observed that Cybiko/UK was ramping up the marketing of
Cybiko computers overseas, I and the other members of the Cybiko Third Party 
Organization became very interested.

I believe that together we can create new software products for the
Cybiko that will make it an ever more interesting product for its users. I 
currently have the following projects on the boards:

1) Wireless Internet HTML Browsing
2) Wireless Internet Telnet
3) Wireless Internet Multiplayer Games
4) Wireless Internet POP3 Client
5) Audio and Video playback of AVI files
6) Video Games based on AVI technology

The problem with completing these projects is that its only worth it to
us if there will be users for them.

So, I would like to create a strategic alliance with Cybiko/UK by:

1) Establishing a dialog between myself and your upper management.  This
will help me to understand your relationship (if any) to Cybiko/USA.

2) Establishing a dialog between myself and your sales group.  The type
of information I am interested in is the general plan Cybiko/UK has for the
future of Cybiko (eg: release of the CyWig or new hardware versions of
the Cybiko).  Also, a general idea of the number of units sold.  This 
information will be used to determine how best to approach creating
third party software for the Cybiko.

3) Establishing a dialog between myself and your technical staff.  I am
in need of some technical details that you may be able to provide. Both in 
terms of hardware and software. 

Doing these things will enable me and the other developers to create
great and novel products for the Cybiko, which can, in turn, increase sales.
I am very excited at the prospect of Cybikos in the United Kingdom running
software created by myself and the other members of the Cybiko Third
Party Organization.  I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Sincerely,


Gregory Smith
President, The Alcor Group, Inc.
Founder of The Cybiko Third Party Organization
}}}
----
{{{
July 28, 2003

Dear Mr. Smith,


Sorry for the delay in replying to you.
The service and ideas that you are offer sounds interesting. However we
can't proceed with the new projects at the moment as we haven't got man
power to do so.


Regards,
}}}
----
{{{
July 28, 2003

Dear Sir,

Thank you so much for your kind response. I fully appreciate your
man-power concerns. Perhaps there is some way in which the Cybiko Third Party 
Organization can assist.  We are now up to a dozen members.  I can
imagine that we can help in several ways.  Here are a few:

1) Writing new software.  Our members are skilled in Wireless, 3D, 
Inter-networking, and many other technologies.

2) Testing software.  We can try new software under a non-disclosure 
agreement and report to you any features that are lacking.

3) Marketing and advertising.  All of our members have popular fan sites
that are frequented daily.  DevCybiko.com has over 2000 members - that's
quite an email list!

4) Tutorials, Online Seminars, and other instructional aids in the use
and programming of the Cybiko.

5) any other areas that you may need assistance in.

The members of the Cybiko Third Party Organization are dedicated to the 
success of your product.  You won't find a more motivated and grateful 
group of people.  I hand-select the members because of their skill and 
demonstrated capabilities in the area of software in general, and the 
Cybiko in particular.

Please consider us at your disposal,

With warmest regards,

Greg Smith
President, The Alcor Group, Inc.
Founder of The Cybiko Third Party Organization
}}}
----
{{{
July 29, 2003

Dear Gregory,

Thank you for your grateful offer.

We can certainly let you give us a hand with the developments and all
the rest of the work that needs to be done as Cybiko Inc has abandoned
not just Cybiko websites but also its customers.

At the moment we would appreciate if you guys could come up with some
kind of a e-marketing plan in order to increase sales in the UK and
overseas. At the moment we have rights to sell Cybiko computers
worldwide and quantities that we need to shift (ship??) this year are pretty big.

If the target will be reached this year (100k) we might get into the
draws and pull out our dev. files of next Cybiko generation.


Best regards,

}}}
