!Pages I have edited:

[Cybiko Wave API|WAVAPI]

[Storm Cvc|StormCVC]

[3d Projection|3dproj] (I plan on updating this)

[Programming tips|progtips]

!Contact Information

You pm me on cydevr, or write at the bottom of this page if you have
any comments or suggestions. 

!Projects:

__Apps__

''StormPlayer (Latest release 0.8.3a)''

Cybiko media player that play/show avi,fli,bmp,pic,txt and html files,
as well as the cybiko specific cvc and cvi file type.

The next version will (with luck) include:

* reduced memory usage
* VideoNow support (already working, tested with gregs videonow java program)
* Improved menu (also done)

I am holding off releasing because i don't want to fall into
the trap of releasing versions each week with only minor
differences.

I am also considering making the browser a seperate program (StormBrowser?), one
problem at the moment is that the larger storm.app becomes, the less
memory is available for image buffers.

''Avi2Cvc (included with Stormplayer)''

Tool for the PC that can quickly convert a compatible avi to a cybiko cvc file.

The next version may include:

*pic sequence to cvc (possibly, or i make this a seperate program)


''Bmp2Cvi  (included with Stormplayer)''

PC Tool to create .cvi image file from bitmaps. One problem with the cybiko
is that other than the .pic format their are no native image formats and .pic
seems limited to 160x100.

The bmp viewing in stormplayer will allow you to view larger images but
most bitmap are very big file and take time to load.

I wanted to use the same compression as the cvc video to make less programming
but those functions would only work on a frame basis, up to a max frame size of 4000k. The new system reads the file as it goes, which reduces memory and
allows for much bigger images. 

The bmp2cvi uses ordered dithering and all four frame types from cvc video.

All of which means big images, small filesizes and half decent quality!

cvi source/example is also in the bundle i upload to cydevr.

''WaveStorm (Not released)''

Audio player, it is more of a test program while I try and get wave,mus and 
midi working. Odds are it will never be released as any working audio modules
would be included in StormPlayer.


__Games__

''Sensitve''

Based on the C64 tile game game where you must run over all the tiles and
reach the exit.

''Starship Command'' (Working title, released in the bundle uploaded on cydevr)

Currently working on a 2D Elite style game. All the objects are vectors (it looks like asteroids..) and it will feature (with luck) trading,mining and shooting. 

''Spyhunter clone'' (50% done, not released yet)

I want to make a vertical scroller so i thought i might try a
spyhunter clone.

''Vector (working title)'' (30% done)

Top down driving game, made using 3d wireframe graphics.
I will upload the current 3d test here soon, so people can give me
some feedback about the speed (seems a little sluggish on a classic
but i am hoping that it will be better on an extreme).

update 6-4-2004
*3d core is finally working, had some overflow problems.
*faster rendering, changed the method of storing the object

I might use this to release a 3d pacman just to see what people think.


''Generic platform game'' (released in the bundle uploaded on cydevr)

This is really just a core, it feature:

* multiple moving enemies
* fullscreen scrolling
* easy to edit map system (just use paint)

The aim is that all someone need to do is design some sprites, make a map
and add a few minor bits to the source and you have a game.

----
''Please write any suggestions or messages below:''
----

[ssjx] Updated: 06-Feb-2004
